It's got half women to go all in.
Like the pressure of the tournament teams have the best day of the day.
How are we doing tonight?
We're doing okay?
Hey, we got one more Tuesday here, and we are going to go all the way forward.
I'm so excited that you're here.
It's Thanksgiving Tuesday, which I don't know.
It feels like the best kind of Tuesday for me, so thanks for choosing to make
make time in your schedule amidst a busy week to join us here tonight, but not just those of you here in the room.
Everybody that's tuning in online, it has been an amazing year.
Noah just kind of wrapped us through it, but we have been together for 45 Tuesdays, this being the 45th.
46 will be next week, but this is our last official porch, and so whether it's been here in the room or it's been you online tuning in with us, whether it's tonight or at some point in the future and you're seeing this, just know.
fully believe that God has been doing something really special in the lives of young adults, just like yourself.
And we think that he is far from finished.
Special shout out to Porcupine Springfield Dayton and Fresno.
Well, when the time came for me to eventually transition out of college ministry, which is what I was doing before I officially moved into young adult ministry, Brooke and I were wholeheartedly available to wherever God wanted to lead us.
Like we were praying and processing and we knew like wherever he called, whatever assignment he had to give, we would get up and we would go.
But we certainly had opinions on where that might be.
And so we prayed a lot because we thought, man, it would be
amazing to go somewhere exciting like LA or DC or somewhere beautiful like San Diego or the Carolinas or somewhere full of culture like Nashville or Tennessee and so when the call came like when we finally got our commission from the Lord on where we supposed to go when you know it
In fact, I've grown to love Houston, but whenever we got the call to go, I was anything but thrilled about it because
I'm not a Houston sports fan.
I don't necessarily love the humidity.
Maybe you do, but I certainly don't.
And I knew like down south of here, they've got mosquitoes the size of hawks.
And so it was a running joke, but you know, there's always some truth in every joke that I felt like Jonah going to Nineveh.
Like I was being called by God to go someplace I didn't want to go.
And all of my fears were confirmed.
Like I showed up in the first couple of years of time.
Like we lived through what was one of the hottest summers in recorded Houston history.
Not what I was wanting for.
We also experienced not just one hurricane, though that is enough of a natural disaster, but also a snowstorm in our first year.
And I got so comfortable carrying like a bug zapper on my hip, it became my new form of concealed carry.
Like I was absolutely locked in to living in the city, though I did not want to be there.
I remember looking at my wife after having lived through some serious suffering and just telling her, this feels like a nightmare.
And yet everything changed for us within just one year's time, or towards the last year of our time there.
And the reason why is because we really grown to love the city.
We had met some of the best people we'd ever met.
We had eaten some of the best food we had ever had.
We met some of our best friends there.
And then what we learned is that God was moving in a way that was completely unexpected to us.
over the course of our time there in Houston in ways that we didn't anticipate nor were we prepared for.
He was moving in what it did in our hearts as it shifted everything.
I remember we were driving home within one of the last few nights we had there.
It was actually around this time of year that many years ago.
And I remember looking at Brooke and being like, are we sure we want to leave?
Like, this is the land of the living, which was just a crazy change in attitude.
Like I had gone from calling it a nightmare one minute to literally within just three years time saying it was the land of the living.
What in God's name could possibly produce that sort of shift to bring me to a spot where, man, it was bleak in the beginning, but it was bright at the end where at the, at the outset, at the very beginning of our time, those first few chapters were so very difficult, but those final few chapters were so very beautiful.
I'll tell you how God moved me from
worrying about everything that stood to threaten my happiness.
And instead he caused me to remember just how good he was and how much I had to be grateful for.
He got my eyes off of the past and he got my eyes on him and what happened as a result of that is everything changed.
Now why do I tell you that?
Because everybody has been and everybody will at some point live through
a similar set of circumstances, those that are difficult.
Because when I got there, I was bitter about the move and then I felt some frustration around my circumstances.
I was even angry about some of the resistance I was facing.
And some of you in this room right now tuning in with us online tonight, you know that because you're
feeling that where you are, like you're going into things giving this week and you're thinking to yourself like, oh my gosh, like, yeah, frustrated.
I can't wait to see that family member that still has not apologized for that thing that they said to me or you feel so embittered.
Like you're so embittered because you keep looking at yourself and you see a lack of company around you despite the fact that you've put yourself out there, you've tried to make friends and yet
even still you feel so lonely.
Some of you, you're just jealous, like you're jealous of another person's relationship.
You're looking out at the world and you've spotted some situations you'd like to be a part of and yet what you realize is, man, they're not as mature as I am, they're not as ready for marriage as I am and yet they're the ones with the relationship and not many.
Others of you, you're irritated because for the love of God, like what your roommate just put their dishes in the sink, like you just feel that deeply inside.
Others of you, you feel aggravated because
You're working in a job where people show up late.
They just simply, they coast through the finish line.
They don't contribute to projects.
And yet they always take credit that is not theirs to take.
I don't know what it is for you, but the reality is we all experience these intensely negative emotions.
And yet while on the surface, they all differ in nature deep down.
They're all rooted in the same core emotion.
which is the emotion I want to talk to you about tonight.
They're rooted in anger, in anger, which is I say that.
I know some of you are really repulsed because you're thinking, well, I'm not an angry kind of person.
And I'm not saying you're an angry person, but I am saying you experience anger because everybody does.
Anger is a basic human emotion.
It's like sadness or disgust or surprise or happiness or fear.
It's one of those core emotions we experience as human beings that's not wrong or sinful intrinsically.
And so what we know
is that it's okay.
It's not bad to feel angry.
It's actually okay.
It's the fight reaction to the fight, flight, or freeze response of our sympathetic nervous system.
Anger as an emotion is not the issue.
You want to know what the issue is?
It's how you express or process your anger that's the issue.
which is the one I want to talk with you about tonight.
I want to help you understand how you're supposed to express this powerful emotion, this emotion that is a genuine motivator behind so much of the actions we take in life.
Like so powerful as anger that it can drive you to tailgate behind that person that cut you off in traffic as if you've got some kind of point to prove some of you are smiling because you know you did that maybe even coming here tonight.
You can confess a repent later.
It's the same motivation behind that.
as it is the desire to get out there and injustice in the world and bring it into modern day slavery.
It's the same primary driver behind both of those things, but how you express it determines whether it is evil or not.
So how then are we supposed to process it rightly?
That's what I wanna talk to you about.
And so if you have a Bible, we're gonna be looking at the chapter, we're gonna look at chapter 37 in the book of Psalms.
While you're turning there, let me just say this for you.
been journeying through a series called 2020.
And tonight, it's not just our last official porch of the year, it's also our last official
in this series.
And this series was really strategic.
Like every year we as a team, if you want just a little behind the scenes look at how we do this, we get away and we go and we commit an entire day to praying and fasting and asking God, God, this is your ministry.
What do you want us to teach?
And we receive from that day some sense of what the spirit is leading in.
And then we map out the series calendar for the year.
So over the course of the year, everything we've taught has been by way of the spirit's prompting.
And yet as we got towards the end of the series,
something else in mind, but we felt this spirit really...
really leading us to engage with sad season.
If you don't know what sad season is, it's seasonal effective disorder.
It's that time of the year where the winter blues begin to play and you walk outside of your office and the sun has already said and thus you feel so despondent and down inside and potentially a little bit more irritable or sluggish even.
Like that's the way that this season often works within the lives of people.
It can put us in an emotional and mental place that is irregular from our normal reality.
that that's the case, we just felt like God was saying, hey, jump into this issue with me.
I want to help people look through my word about what I'm saying for their feelings.
And so we've been journeying through it over the last several weeks, and yet tonight is the last one.
And when you know it, we're going out with a bang.
We're talking about anger on Thanksgiving week of all weeks, which just feels crazy because that doesn't feel like it really lines up.
And yet it actually lines up perfectly.
I'm going to explain that to you in just a moment.
But before we do so,
We have to do in this series here tonight when we've done all throughout this series, which is we need to understand really the problem before we can catch God's perspective.
And so when it comes to anger, what is the problem of it?
And as we identify the truth therein, we'll be able to see what God has to say about it.
So what do we need to know?
Well, first and foremost, you've got to know what we've already said.
You need to know anger is not inherently wrong.
It's not intrinsically evil.
The Bible would support this, okay?
So just some scripture to give you an idea.
Ephesians 4, 26 says, be angry and do not sin.
See it?
God, that's such a great verse for this idea.
The emotions not wrong, but the expression can be.
Don't let the sun go down on your anger.
Proverbs 14, 29.
Whoever is slow to anger, it doesn't say whoever never angers.
No, it says whoever is slow to has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
Psalm 103, eight says the Lord is merciful.
He's gracious.
Even the Lord is slow to anger, into bounding in steadfast love.
We know that Jesus
even himself.
He was angry at different points in time.
And he was perfect, which tells us exactly what we've been saying.
Anger is not intrinsically evil, which begs the question, when is anger evil?
Well, you need to understand something definitionally about anger.
We'll put this on the screen because we want you to be able to write it down if you're one of our note-takers in the room.
But definitionally, something that is true of anger is the natural response to a perceived threat to one's happiness.
And most often, not always, but most often, what determines whether anger is righteous or unrighteous is whose happiness
is threatened.
So let me just give you a little bit of a breakdown.
Two different categories.
Righteous anger is when someone else's happiness is being threatened.
We see this as the kind of anger that Jesus was imbued with.
When you read in the Gospel of Mark, it says that he was angry or he was indignant to his disciples.
Why?
Because they kept the little children from coming to him in the Gospel of John.
You see that he sort of flipping tables and driving out money changers with a whip.
because they had turned the Lord's house of prayer into a dinner robbers.
That made him angry as well.
He was angry not on his own behalf, but on behalf of other people.
See how that works?
That's righteous anger.
I love the way John Stott says it when he's talking about Jesus is anger.
He says Jesus is anger is neither mysterious nor irrational.
It's never unpredictable.
It's always predictable because it is provoked by evil and evil alone.
The wrath of God
It's his steady, unrelenting, unremitting, uncompromising antagonism to evil in all its forms and manifestations.
You see that?
God feels anger himself, and yet his antagonism is always towards the same thing and only that thing.
It's always directed at evil, which is so encouraging, isn't it?
Like God's design for his world was not one where
people would be abused and slandered and manipulated and attacked and hurt even.
That was never a part of his design.
And so what we know is evil's days are numbered.
Like ultimately, Jesus has already dealt the initial blow.
He's taken death out by dying himself.
He's gonna come back and he's gonna finish the job.
That's righteous anger.
Now unrighteous anger is anger that's directed when my happiness is being threatened.
Unrighteous anger is when my happiness
is being threatened.
Now, I want to be really clear.
Some of you have suffered some serious injustices through abuse or assault at the hands of another person.
And you have every right to be angry.
That's not what I'm talking about here.
You need to know that makes God very angry.
And he promises in his word that he will
deal with the wicked.
That's not what we're talking about here.
What we're talking about here is this idea that most people's anger, it orbits not around evil, it orbits around ego.
And what I mean by that is it's why people get defensive.
whenever it says something that they don't like or they disagree with them.
Or it's why we grow hateful because we didn't get the kind of outcome that we actually wanted.
Or we feel bitter because, man, someone, they went against us and then they never apologized for it.
And now we just feel this resentment boiling up and building inside, unrighteous anger.
It always comes to its own defense.
I remember seeing this whenever I was in grade school, in high school, growing up, you would always see two guys.
Like they would kind of get into a fight with one another because one of them encroached on the other one's territory.
hurt that other guy's pride, and they would always do the same thing.
Like, they would bow up in front of each other, and they would lock eyes with one another, and they'd begin to stare each other down.
And then if it was really serious, one of them would take his shirt off, which was always kind of strange, and you knew like, oh my gosh, it's really about to go down.
He just took his shirt off, man.
And then the reality is, which we were joking earlier, that would not work today.
You know, it would be like, please put your clothes back on.
Like, I'm not intimidated in the slightest.
Please don't do that any longer.
But at that time, it told us, it was like, man, this is correct.
They're really upset.
They're really angry.
Why?
Because someone has threatened their happiness.
Happiness in their reputation.
Happiness in their pride.
Happiness in their comfort.
And because no one else was going to do anything about it, they had to do something about it.
That's unrighteous anger.
And listen, we don't do this, do we?
Of course we do.
Now you may not puff up and bow up on somebody, but you do possibly mutter under your breath.
or you do nurse a grudge.
Some of you, you indulge revenge fantasies because you might not be able to get back out of them, but you know how you would get back out of them and you love to go to that dark kind of place.
Maybe that's not the case.
Maybe you just sulk.
Like you just find, you know what?
I'm not gonna be able to express this verbally.
I'm gonna just embody this physically and I'm going to feel really down and despondent in my own spirit.
I don't know what it is for you, but here's the thing.
Anger can be dangerous if not expressed effectively.
It's fascinating.
Anger is an emotional response to some threat against your happiness.
But the irony is, anger itself can be the threat to your happiness.
The American Psychological Association says, ineffectively processing anger can lead to
hypertension, high blood pressure, depression, anxiety, as well as a suite of other mental health disruptions, meaning it literally can impair your happiness.
So what are we supposed to do about that?
Well, psychology today, they said this in an article on the topic of anger, and I thought it was so good, I just wanted to read it to you.
They said, unleashing your anger does not produce the sense of catharsis that people crave.
which just tells us that venting is a myth.
Venting is actually not helping you whatsoever, neither is gossiping, it's only hurting you.
It does not produce the sense of catharsis that people crave.
It tends to feed on itself instead.
The best path forward isn't to unleash your anger, it's to understand your anger.
It's roots, it's triggers, it's consequences, and then cultivate the ability
to manage it.
I love that.
I love that it says cultivate the ability to manage it.
It's like a farmer who cultivates a field.
You know, that's what you're supposed to do with all those negative
those feelings inside, those feelings rooted in the core emotion of anger.
Like you're supposed to teal up the soil and pull all the weeds and remove all the rocks and lay down some seed and carefully water so that you grow something good in its place.
And that's everything that David wants to talk to us about in Psalm 37.
He wants to teach you, hey, instead of growing your anger, let's grow something better instead because although your problem may be anger, your perspective, God's perspective.
could be gratitude.
It could be gratitude.
You see, what we need to know as we think about gratitude in God is that the anger is a response to some threat to our happiness.
What if we put our happiness in some place it cannot be threatened?
What if we put it in God who can never be encroached against?
who never at all worries in the face of evil.
That's what David's prompting us towards.
He wants us to step into a kind of relationship with God where we remember how good he is even in the face of how dark the world may become and how troubling the times may get.
And he tells us as we get into Psalm 37, very specifically, how to do it.
He wants to give us four disciplines for growing gratitude.
So if you take a note,
four disciplines for growing gratitude.
The first one we see in verse one says this, fret not yourself because of evil doers.
Be not envious of wrongdoers, for they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb.
We need to stop and we need to talk because what we need to know is what this word fret actually means because we're gonna get into this and what you're gonna see is all of the disciplines, they very quickly come.
And yet before any of them do, David just gives one command.
He says, hey, do not fret yourself.
So we need to ask ourselves, then what does it mean to fret?
Because we don't actually use that kind of language.
Nobody is looking at their friend at the end of a hard day and saying, do not fret, my friend.
No one says that.
So what does David actually mean?
What he's saying is he's saying, hey, be on guard against anger.
You see, it's interesting.
The Hebrew primitive root to fret.
is the idea of to glow or to warm.
And when you take that idea and you morph it into a verb, it means to get heated.
Meaning to get angry, to feel something boiling up inside, burning within, kindling in your soul against whatever someone may have said or done.
And we see this all throughout the scripture.
We don't have time to unpack it, but you can go and see.
It happens in Potiphar, right?
He looks and his anger was kindled against Joseph.
You see Samson after he kills 30 men from Eshkalon, he returns home in hot anger.
Like you can see this idea all throughout the scripture because the thought behind anger is it's not just a flip of the switch.
Yes, of course, there's an instigator, something that catalyzes it into reality, but it doesn't stay there.
It grows.
It's like a fire.
It spreads.
And if not stopped, it burns the whole forest of your life down.
And so we have to know then, how do we keep it from growing?
Well, he's gonna tell us you need to grow gratitude.
That's why he says in verse three, and he gives us the first discipline.
He says, he trusts in the Lord.
Do good.
Dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness.
He tells us to trust the Lord, which just feels like good old Christian advice, doesn't it?
Does trust in God?
How the heck am I supposed to do that?
Has anyone ever considered that reality?
Like I read the scriptures like trust and learn.
I'm like, okay, I know I'm supposed to, but I'd like to grow in my capacity to do so.
Can someone help me know how to trust in God?
Well, how do you trust in anybody?
You remember what made them trustworthy to begin with.
That's the thing here.
You remember, that's the first discipline.
If you wanna grow your gratitude, then you need to learn the discipline of remembrance.
And I mean it when I say discipline.
This isn't just something you subconsciously wander your way into.
It's something you should very meticulously apply to your life.
We should learn to discipline ourselves in remembrance, because remembrance is what leads to trust.
So whenever I want Brooke
to trust me.
Whenever it's, hey, she needs me to show up on time, or I need her to trust it, I'll get that thing done, or I need her to trust it.
I'm gonna call those people.
I don't appeal to her trust by saying, but baby, you know, I'm such a good man.
Like, I don't do that.
That's not gonna get me anywhere.
I don't look at her and say, but you know that I mean well, like, that doesn't work either.
What do I say?
Hey, you can trust me.
Why?
Remember when I showed up
all those times before.
Remember what I called all those times before.
Remember what I did, whatever it was you wanted all those times before.
I called back times of previous trustworthiness so she can know she can trust me today.
And here's the reality.
Like I can look at it and be like, hey, remember when and she can look at me and say, but remember when you did it?
The truth of the matter is though, we cannot do that with God.
There was never a moment in our relationship or over the course of all time where God did not keep his word.
did not honor his promise or did not come through in the clutch.
Like when Abraham went to sacrifice his son, God provided an alternative instead.
When God's people cried out from slavery in Egypt, he heard them and he delivered them.
When Ruth had no kinsman, redeemer, or hope to speak of God sent Boaz to give her a family.
When David, he stood toe to toe with Goliath, the God of Israel's armies fought for him.
When Elijah confronted the prophets of Baal, God set fire from heaven.
When Jehoshaphat saw armies invading all around, God heard his prayer and he vanquished his enemies.
And here's the thing, when we were dead in our sins, Christ, our rescuer came running.
Why?
Because God is trustworthy.
He's trustworthy.
We can believe he will keep
His promises, He will honor His Word.
He never fails a commitment.
And when He commits to deliver us out of our sin and bring us back to Himself, we can believe He's going to do it.
He's going to do it.
But we have to cultivate remembrance.
We have really good reason to trust God biblically.
If that wasn't enough reason, then just go read the rest of the book because you'll see it again and again and again.
And yet not only do you have good reason to trust Him biblically, you have good reason to trust Him personally.
And it serves us to remember it.
According to one study, if you spend five minutes a day remembering what you have to be grateful for, that can increase your long-term well-being by upwards of 10% or more.
Just five minutes.
Thinking about what you have to be grateful for, remembering God's goodness in the past.
And so what reasons do you have to trust God?
I don't know what they are for you, but I know what they are in my own life because over the course of my life, I have seen God be so very faithful to me.
And there's three things that stand out as being especially significant.
I can look back and I can trust God because of my salvation.
Like I wasn't looking to get saved at Taco Bell at 11 p.m. at night sitting across the table from a friend in a corner booth.
And yet God, that's exactly what he intended to do that evening.
I didn't go there looking for that.
I don't know what I went there looking for to begin with.
It was Taco Bell.
And yet God knew I needed to find him in that place.
And so I showed up and I sat across the table from my buddy and he just started unpacking for me.
Not just here are some good rules of Christian living to abide by.
He started telling me about the character and the nature of God and his signature across creation.
And as I heard all of it, my curiosity was replaced with desire.
And I wanted what he had given me in that place.
where you're like, I want what you want.
I want what you got.
I want him.
That's where I was at.
And the beauty of it was it didn't come out of me.
It came from God.
He wanted me first and then I wanted him in response.
The second reason I've got good cause to trust in God is I can look at my marriage.
Like I know in my marriage, I was way more immature than I thought when we first said I do.
And as a result, we dealt with some really tough times, many of which were my own fault.
And yet, I can confidently stand before you and I can say, Brooke and I have never been happier in our marriage.
And it's because God is faithful, not because we figured it out.
God was faithful when we messed up, when I continually screwed up, he didn't.
he persisted in his kindness towards me and his patience as well.
And then the third reason is in my job.
Like, I almost gave up on ministry at one point, like a dream that I had for so long etched in the journals from my days in college was snatched away from me.
And yet, though that was my dream, God replaced it with a better dream.
He replaced it with this, with you.
And because he did,
I have good cause to trust him.
I have great reason because I stand here in the joy of my life ministering to young adults in Dallas, Texas and all across the nation.
He has given you really good reason to trust him.
So what reasons has he given you?
And even if you're here and you don't know, Jesus, you have no relationship with God.
Whatever good you have in your life, it's from him.
He's the giver of every good and perfect gift.
And then come as a result of anything other than him.
And so even though you may not have a relationship with him, you can actually recognize him tonight.
You can see it as true from he who only and always gives good.
Psalm 103, one and two says this, praise the Lord my soul.
All my inmost being praises holy name.
I love that.
Say not all my outmost being, because a lot of people do that.
Don't they, they praise externally, but they don't praise internally.
And he's like, not me.
I'm going to praise you for my inmost being.
Praise the Lord, my soul, and forget not all his benefits.
So, friend, let me ask you, what benefits of his have you forgotten?
If you feel like your trust in God
is struggling, your gratitude in God is failing.
What benefits of his have you forgotten?
Have you forgotten the fact that he's given you a new name?
Like do you look back at your past and think that those are the things that define you?
Those are not the things that define you.
The things that define you are the fact that he has called you son or daughter if you place your faith in him.
Like are you sitting here tonight and you've forgotten that he's given you a bright future?
One where he's prepared good works in advance for you to walk into?
Like you're here and you've forgotten.
He's given you a really big family.
You got brothers and sisters all across this room.
I don't care what kind of home you came from.
He's given you a big family full of brothers, sisters, spiritual fathers, spiritual mothers.
And he's gone and he has prepared a place for you in his house.
Have you forgotten that he's given you unconditional love?
No matter how big a mess you've made of your life, how big a mistake
you feel like you are or how deep the stain of your sin actually goes.
Christ loved you when you were already at your worst.
Forget not his benefits because it's in his benefits that we remember.
We have good cause for gratitude.
That's the first one.
Let's keep going.
Verse four.
He says, delight yourself in the Lord and he'll give you the desires of your heart.
I love this.
Notice it doesn't say,
Get the desires of your heart and you'll delight in the Lord.
But just get that job or that bonus or that boyfriend and then what you'll feel is a deep sense of delight.
And God, that's not what he's saying.
What he's saying instead is that when you get God, you get everything.
When you get God, you get everything.
Which is important for us to know because if we want to grow our gratitude, the second discipline you have to learn is the discipline of presence.
The discipline of presence.
What do I mean when I say presence?
Well, what does it mean to be in someone's presence?
It means that you're near to them, like you're encountering the expression of their personality, you're engaging with them face to face.
It means you're close to them.
That's what we're talking about here.
Dating gurus, galore, all herald the importance of being present in a relationship because it creates an environment where your significant other understands just how much they matter to you.
When you're willing to block out all other distractions and focus your attention, they understand that they matter.
They're important because nothing says I love you like silencing your phone, looking in their eyes and listening with your face.
That's ultimately what's going to convince someone that you care about them.
It's that you're present with them.
as just one example, some of you really understand this because you honestly thought about skipping tonight so you could watch the season finale of Dancing with the Stars.
What would you do without recording it?
But the reason why you thought about skipping is because you are just so smitten with Robert Irwin.
Notice the laughter in the room was all female, not because any of them are animal conservationists, but because they think he's cute, they like the way his hips move, and ultimately,
They just want to see how this chapter in his life is going to conclude.
You've spent so much time with him.
And thus you care about him.
You have been present for all of his highs and his lows.
That's David's point.
We need to practice presence with God.
That's the secret to loving him more.
But here's the thing, when we don't do it, that's why so many Christians, they're full of board belief and casual kinds of living.
And thus they fall prey to other desires instead.
You hear me out there, Christian?
If you're settling for less than a life that God has come to give you, if you're just stamping the Christian membership card, submitting your monthly dues, attending church twice a month, and cashing in 2% of your tithe, occasionally coming to Bible study because you feel guilty that you haven't been in several weeks.
When you do that,
You're not setting yourself up for the kind of life that Christ has come to give, because He didn't come to give you that.
He's come to give you so much more.
I think He came from heaven to earth, lived perfectly, endured every temptation.
You do die the most miserable of deaths, yet rose forth in victory over it all.
Just so you could feel, man, how about all of this?
No.
It's deeper and richer and bigger and more beautiful than so many of us experience.
And yet when we don't, when we settle for less, what happens is we fall prey to other desires.
That's what happened to us from the beginning.
Genesis 3, 6 says, so when the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was what?
A delight to the eyes and that the tree was to be what?
Desired.
to make one wise, she took of its fruit and she ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate.
You see, if you delight in God, you'll desire God, but if you don't delight in God, you're going to desire something else.
So what are you desiring after?
And the reason you do is because you think that's gonna make you happy, but here's the thing, and how it all ties back to anger, because anger is what it is a response to someone threatening your happiness.
If you don't desire him, you're threatening yourself.
you're choosing to put your own happiness on the chopping block.
And what you'll feel is not anger at the world.
You'll feel anger at yourself.
And some of you know this so very well.
Like people, some of you here, you delight and love.
Oh, the concept of it.
And so you just desire a boyfriend or a girlfriend.
But you're willing to do things that you absolutely and utterly regret.
because that's what's required to be with whomever it is you've chosen to spend your time with.
Some of you, you delight in success so much so that you've got a high-powered job, but you hate yourself because you have sold your soul in order to achieve it.
Others of you, you delight in a particular outcome.
You've got a plan for your life.
And so you desire control, but not a single one of us has absolute
control of anything.
And so because you don't, you're stressed, you're anxious, and you're not as happy as you could be in God.
That's the thing, and I need you to hear me.
Delight in God is the key to a happy life.
And that's not some prosperity nonsense I'm selling up here.
That's the truth.
There is no joy, let the joy of the Lord
Psalm 16, 11, I'm gonna rattle these at you.
It says, you make known to me the path of life in your presence is fullness of joy and your right hand pleasures forevermore.
Psalm 63, because your steadfast love is better than life.
That's a big, my lips will praise you.
Psalm 84, two, my soul longs.
Yes, it faints for the court to the Lord, my heart and my flesh.
They sing for what for joy to the living God.
And then Psalm 73, a personal favorite says this, whom have I in heaven but you God?
There's nothing on earth that I desire beside you.
My flesh and my heart, they may fail, but God, you're the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
For behold, those who are far from you shall perish.
You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you, but for me, it's good to be near God.
It's good to be near God, so learn the discipline of presence.
We gotta keep going.
Look at verse five.
It says this, commit your way to the Lord.
Trust in him and he will act.
He will bring forth your righteousness as the light and your justice as the noon day.
For the sake of time, we're not going to read all the way through this Psalm.
It's too big to do so, but we are going to look at this first section.
But what you need to know, and it's articulated in the first section, but it is absolutely explained if you study all of it, is that David is not just angry generally.
He is angry specifically, and he's advising those that might feel angry as well, because they are not just
Generally upset, but they are upset at the prosperity of the wicked.
Those who ultimately do not deserve the good they've got yet succeed anyways, that can be really infuriating.
And so David is writing to that type of person.
And yet in the midst of that, when it feels like you have every good reason to be angry, he says what?
Commit your way to God.
Like even when you feel like you got a good reason not to.
To actually grow angry and retaliate against someone else, don't do it.
Instead, hold fast to the course at hand.
Because in the face of growing anger, what you can know is that you grow gratitude to the discipline of innocence.
The discipline of innocence.
Which is actually a really incredible way of growing your gratitude.
Because if you think about it, what robs us of gratitude?
Guilt.
guilt robs you of gratitude and you're going to experience a lot of this over the course of the holiday season because Hallmark has absolutely formalized this within their movies.
They know that they can spin the tale of a young businesswoman that makes a journey to some small town begrudgingly and yet she falls in love with the locals as well as the hometown hero and right when everything seems amazing.
The article she wrote gets published and everybody is upset or the company closes down the mill or her ex-fiance shows up and causes trouble.
And in the midst of that all, all of her gratefulness is replaced by regretfulness.
You know that her gratitude is zapped dry because she's guilty.
So don't be guilty.
Instead, the innocent, that's why we should pursue it because it's ultimately going to save us from that great enemy of gratitude.
So what does innocence look like?
Well, innocence looks like kids.
It looks like children.
It's amazing.
There was a study done recently and they basically were trying to prove how overstimulated children are.
And so they released a group of kids into a room that had nothing but tables and chairs.
And at first the kids looked absolutely clueless as to what to do because they were overstimulated and they didn't know how to
engage with a situation where there was nothing no fodder for their entertainment.
And yet what you saw is by the end of that study, their imaginations were running wild because their innocence was taking over.
They were building forts and they were leading battleships and all sorts of crazy things.
That's what innocence looks like.
It's humility and it's purity.
Jesus, he loved kids for this reason.
He talks about it in Matthew 18.
He says, at that time the disciples came to him saying,
Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?
You know what he does?
He called a child and he put him or her in front of them.
And he said, that's what the greatest in the kingdom of heaven looks like.
Why?
Number one, because they have the air of humility.
They're dependent on someone else to take care of them.
All of us are that way when it comes to our salvation.
But also, they're not only dependent, they're innocent.
There's a purity about them.
Like they enjoy the world free of unadulterated evil.
Like they don't think about the things that we think about.
And because they do, it should be good instruction to us that we should pursue innocence.
I've said this in here before, but it feels good to do good.
Doesn't it?
Feels good to do good.
Like don't you feel accomplished whenever you sit down and you watch, ah,
Episode and then you choose to go to bed as opposed to letting Netflix just bathe over you until one in the morning that feels accomplished You know some of you you feel very successful good about your life decisions when you wake up with your alarm as opposed to just hitting snooze and getting eight minutes more of time in bed Though you go through nine cycles and never actually go to go to sleep and you would have just been as well to get up whenever it first went off in the first place some of you
You feel great when you actually put the lid on the ice cream and you go to bed.
That's the reality.
You can do it, man.
It feels good to do good.
So let me ask you, how are you pursuing innocence in your life?
How are you pursuing it in your life?
And this week is a really great week to start because you're going to face some really unique pressures as you go into the holidays.
Some of you, you know you don't feel pure in the way that you partake of alcohol whenever you're around your family.
You don't feel innocent.
You feel guilty.
So don't do it.
Some of you, you feel what I felt whenever I was in high school college, you go back home and the experience of going home just stirs up old haunts, like things that you left in the past that come back to roost.
And maybe for you, it's what it was for me.
It was lust and what you didn't know is have a friend put a lock on your phone.
Others of you, like you're staring down the barrel of this week and you know.
You're gonna have to measure up in the eyes of all your family.
Your sibling's gonna show up with all their accomplishments and accolades and you're worried about that experience and the most innocent thing you could do is before they ever share what's going on in their life, you just share what's going on in yours and you're honest about it.
You don't try to measure up.
You don't tell any false truths.
You just deal straight with them and then you see how they respond because it might be liberating for them instead.
It's better to feel innocent and grateful than be guilty and regretful.
So much so that Jesus came to make you innocent.
you wouldn't have this without him, that he's come to make you innocent, take away your guilt and lead you into a kind of life where you have good reason for gratitude.
Last one, and we'll go quick, says verse seven, wait for him, fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices, refrain from anger and forsake wrath, fret not yourself.
It tends only to evil, for the evil doers shall be cut off, but those who wait for the Lord, they shall inherit the land.
There's power in waiting for the Lord.
I love it.
Four commands He gives this after that first one, do not fret.
He tells you from the drop.
He says, trust in the Lord, delight yourself in the Lord, commit your way to the Lord.
And then here lastly, you be still before the Lord.
You need to learn the discipline of the discipline of patience.
The discipline of patience.
Here's why.
Anger is instinctive.
Someone says something to you that hurts you.
Someone crosses you in a way that they shouldn't.
Someone looks at you the wrong kind of way.
And what you do is you instinctively want to respond.
But patience is not instinctive.
Patience is always a conscious choice.
And yet what you know is that patience is the way out of anger and into gratitude.
I'll just share one really quick story as we bring this thing to an end because it's important for us to understand.
in my marriage with the woman that I love most.
My natural impulse is to spring into Enneagram 8 action whenever we get crossed with one another.
It's amazing.
I lawyer up so fast I'm ready to approach the stand and argue my defense because
I'm a challenger, like I love to get myself into a good fight.
And so what we've had to do is we've had to inject into our conflict resolution a period for patience.
Where whenever something begins to stir between the two of us and we sense, man, we're just not aligned with one another and we need to reach reconciliation.
We'll just take 15 minutes.
We'll just take a breath.
Why?
Because the feelings subside.
in the truth rises.
It gets me in a place where I'm not thinking with my feelings.
I'm thinking through my feelings.
I can run instant replay on every reason why I might be angry.
And what I realize is I probably don't have good reason to be.
It leads me to a spot where I can ask her honest questions that help me get to the bottom of what she is thinking.
It leads me to a place where I'm slow to speak, slow to become angry and quick to listen.
I'm seeking to understand.
And it all comes by way of the power of patience.
Here's why that matters so much for you.
That's God's heart for you, friend.
There's a beautiful scripture that Peter writes and he says,
God is patient with you, not wishing that any would perish, but all would come to the knowledge of repentance.
That's his heart.
He is patient with you.
For today, this moment, the time we live in now, it's the day of salvation.
But there's coming another day, the day of judgment, where God's righteous anger will rain down on all evil, as it rightly should.
And yet before that happens, he's calling you.
He's compelling you.
Come to me.
Place your faith in me.
Trust in me.
Because I've not forgotten about you.
You have good reason to remember.
But listen, I've always remembered you.
Like in the midst of your waywardness and your wandering, God's looking at you saying, I've never once forgotten about you.
I've always had my eye on you.
He's looking at you and he's wanting you to know, like, hey, I've come close to save you.
Yes, you get to come into my presence now, but only because I came into your presence to begin with.
That's the beauty of what we're gonna celebrate when we come into Christmas is God with us.
That's the story of scripture that nothing was worth keeping God from his people.
He wanted to be with us.
And so since he has, we now have the ability to do so likewise, but he had to do it first.
We can know that Jesus has come to make you innocent.
And thus you can live innocently today and you can know here tonight, friends, that Jesus is waiting patiently for you.
But we are under a shot clock.
Time will run out.
And his patience and loving kindness will be replaced with a righteous anger and a holy theory because he wants to make the world as it should be.
and the beauty of it is he wants to make you as you can be starting now.
All you have to do is place your faith in him.
All you have to do is trust in Christ for the forgiveness of your sins.
Know that he lived the life you can't, not a single one of us is good, yet he was good, and our place, he died the death that we deserve, and yet because he did that,
We can rise forth with him out of the grave, which he was resurrected from, by simply claiming him as he is, as Lord, Savior, King.
What's keeping you from putting your yes on the altar if you don't know him tonight?
And for others of you here that do know him, why are you so angry?
You have great, great reason for gratitude.
Let me pray that you would remember all of those reasons.